Archive Reader
Onset Computer Corporation					April 1998

ArchRead is a Windows 95/NT application that allows you to retrieve and save
data from the last eight deployments of an Onset HOBO H08 Pro Series data 
logger.  Consult the HOBO H08 Pro Series logger manual for information about 
using the HOBO H08 Pro Series logger.  

To install ProTool:
To install this utility, go to the ARCHREAD folder on this disk and run 
archcopy.exe and follow the instructions.  To run the application, select 
the ArchRead icon from the Onset Applications Program group.

Using ArchRead:
Select the COM port to which your logger is connected.  To retrieve the 
archived data, press the "Get Archives" button. ArchRead will contact the logger
and begin reading out the eight archived data files on the logger. Your logger
is initially configured with eight empty files that are shown with the 
deployment number 0. So even if your logger has not been launched eight times,
you will see eight files when it is completed.  Once all eight files have been
retrieved from your logger, ArchRead will display (from most recent to oldest) 
the following information for each archived data file: the deployment number, 
start time, end time, number of points and the description.  Select the files 
that you wish to save. To select multiple files, hold down the Shift or Ctrl 
key and select the desired files. With the files selected, press the "Save" 
button.  You will be prompted to save each of the selected files.  The name 
given will be the first eight characters of the Description.  Although this is
a Windows 95/NT application that is capable of saving longer filenames, in order
to easily bring the files into BoxCar Pro 3.5, we recommend you use an  eight 
character name with the .dtf extension.  If you are done retrieving files, you 
can then press the "Exit" button to close the application.  If you need to 
retrieve data from another logger, connect the next logger and again press 
"Get Archives".

Error Messages
If your H08 Pro has a damaged data file, the Archive Reader will attempt to 
continue reading the rest of the archives.  The Archive Reader will display
the word "Error" followed by the number in the file list if it encountered
a damaged datafile.  If there is a communication error, you will need to 
try again to retrieve all the data files. 


Error Num	Meaning
1,2,4,6,9	Check logger's connection and battery.
3		Selected COM Port is not available.
5		Out of memory.
7,11,12,13	Either the logger or the data file has been damaged.
8		Locked in Launch mode. Please launch again.
10		Unsupported logger model.
